# Parameters used by several functions in JointAI

Parameters used by several functions in JointAI

## Arguments

- object:

  object inheriting from class 'JointAI'

- no_model:

  optional; vector of names of variables for which no model should be
  specified. Note that this is only possible for completely observed
  variables and implies the assumptions of independence between the
  excluded variable and the incomplete variables.

- timevar:

  name of the variable indicating the time of the measurement of a
  time-varying covariate in a proportional hazards survival model (also
  in a joint model). The variable specified in "timevar" will
  automatically be added to "no_model".

- assoc_type:

  named vector specifying the type of the association used for a
  time-varying covariate in the linear predictor of the survival model
  when using a "JM" model. Implemented options are "underl.value"
  (linear predictor; default for covariates modelled using a Gaussian,
  Gamma, beta or log-normal distribution) covariates) and "obs.value"
  (the observed/imputed value; default for covariates modelled using
  other distributions).

- subset:

  subset of parameters/variables/nodes (columns in the MCMC sample).
  Follows the same principle as the argument `monitor_params` in
  [`*_imp`](model_imp.md).

- exclude_chains:

  optional vector of the index numbers of chains that should be excluded

- start:

  the first iteration of interest (see
  [`window.mcmc`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/coda/man/window.mcmc.html))

- end:

  the last iteration of interest (see
  [`window.mcmc`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/coda/man/window.mcmc.html))

- n.adapt:

  number of iterations for adaptation of the MCMC samplers (see
  [`adapt`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/rjags/man/adapt.html))

- n.iter:

  number of iterations of the MCMC chain (after adaptation; see
  [`coda.samples`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/rjags/man/coda.samples.html))

- n.chains:

  number of MCMC chains

- quiet:

  logical; if `TRUE` then messages generated by **rjags** during
  compilation as well as the progress bar for the adaptive phase will be
  suppressed, (see
  [`jags.model`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/rjags/man/jags.model.html))

- progress.bar:

  character string specifying the type of progress bar. Possible values
  are "text" (default), "gui", and "none" (see `update`). Note: when
  sampling is performed in parallel it is not possible to display a
  progress bar.

- thin:

  thinning interval (integer; see
  [`window.mcmc`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/coda/man/window.mcmc.html)). For
  example, `thin = 1` (default) will keep the MCMC samples from all
  iterations; `thin = 5` would only keep every 5th iteration.

- nrow:

  optional; number of rows in the plot layout; automatically chosen if
  unspecified

- ncol:

  optional; number of columns in the plot layout; automatically chosen
  if unspecified

- use_ggplot:

  logical; Should ggplot be used instead of the base graphics?

- warn:

  logical; should warnings be given? Default is `TRUE`.

- mess:

  logical; should messages be given? Default is `TRUE`.

- xlab, ylab:

  labels for the x- and y-axis

- idvars:

  name of the column that specifies the multi-level grouping structure

- seed:

  optional; seed value (for reproducibility)

- ppc:

  logical: should monitors for posterior predictive checks be set? (not
  yet used)

- rd_vcov:

  optional character string or list (of lists or character strings)
  specifying the structure of the variance covariance matrix/matrices of
  the random effects for multivariate mixed models. Options are `"full`,
  `"blockdiag"` (default) and `"indep"`. Different structures can be
  specified per grouping level (in multi-level models with more than two
  levels) by specifying a list with elements per grouping level. To
  specify different structures for different outcomes, a list (maybe
  nested in the list per grouping level) can be specified. This list
  should have the type of structure as names and contain vectors of
  variable names that belong to the respective structure.
